Adding articles for Mobile App Testing (#224)
nightwatchjs/nightwatch-docs: guide/mobile-app-testing/selectors.md

---
title: Selectors for native mobile app tests
description:  Introduction to selectors to find elements for native mobile apps
summary_image: https://nightwatchjs.org/img/banner.png
---

<div class="page-header"><h2>Introduction to selectors for native mobile apps test</h2></div>

### Overview

Selectors are at the core of finding elements before you can interact with them or assert using them. Nightwatch supports the following selectors strategies, which can be used to locate your elements
- id
- xpath

### ID

This is the native element id i.e. `resource-id` on Android & `name` for iOS . Even if you don’t have access to the code base, you can very easily find the ID using the Appium Inspector tool. 

![Example of ID selector][image-1]

As you can see the highlighted element has an id value `org.wikipedia:id/search_src_text`

> To interact with that element, selector strategy would be id and selector string would be `org.wikipedia:id/search_src_text`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To interact with that element, selector strategy would be 'id' and selector string would be 'org.wikipedia:id/search_src_text'.
```

Author: Updated

### XPath

> Apart from ID, you can also locate an element using the XPath. We do not recommend using XPath as it can make your test cases very fragile as even a small change in layout of the application can render the XPath incorrect. You should use XPath only if no other selectors are applicable. 

Reviewer: This statement sounds really demoralizing, maybe replace it with the one present on this [BrowserStack guide](https://www.browserstack.com/guide/locators-in-appium)? This also contains proper reasoning behind the statement.

> [Xpath in Appium](https://www.browserstack.com/guide/xpath-in-appium) analyzes the XML structure of the app and then locates the element. Xpath should only be used when there is no ID, Name, or accessibility ID assigned to a specific UI element. Although XPath allows for the formulation of complex queries, using XPath is not recommended because it has stability and performance issues (as mentioned in the [official documentation](http://appium.io/docs/en/commands/element/find-elements/index.html#selector-strategies)).

![Example of xPath selector][image-2]

### Selecting nth element

> Nightwatch selectors also accept a JSON value instead of a string where more options can be provided. You can select an element at nth index from a list of elements. For e.g. in case you have a list with multiple list items, you can select the nth element by sending a JSON object instead of the selector string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nightwatch selectors also accept a [selector object](https://nightwatchjs.org/guide/writing-tests/finding-interacting-with-dom-elements.html#element-properties) instead of a string where more options can be provided. You can select an element at nth index from a list of elements. For e.g. in case you have a list with multiple list items, you can select the nth element by sending a selector object instead of a string.
```
